welcome to review for nurses a
psychosocial nursing review course
focusing on behavioral and emotional
problems and coping and adaptation
throughout the lifespan your lecture
Sallie L lager quest
RN MS is an author and editor of seven
nursing review books and is founder and
president of review for nurses
incorporated this presentation was
recorded live at a nursing review course
the content in this presentation is
up-to-date at the time of videotaping
however the National Council of State
Boards of Nursing may make changes from
time to time to the nclex-rn test plan
check their website to stay current if
there are any significant changes or
Corrections to the material presented
here that information will also be
posted online at WWF in our skomal form
ecology specifically the antipsychotics
also known as neuroleptics and the
easiest way probably is if I leave the
podium and demonstrate some of these
side effect problems
the very first one you need to know
about is the most dangerous side effect
but luckily not the most frequent it's a
hypersensitivity reaction that is a
blood descretion agranulocytosis
specifically the implication for nursing
care is to make sure that there's a
recent white blood cell count done
because that can cause difficulties they
will patient well first complaint will
be any nurse I have a little sort
stretchy throat so rather than saying
okay we'll get a medication for it or
I'll chart it or I'll tell the doctor or
the flus going around you immediately
look in the chart when the last CBC was
done and nurses can order routine tests
like CBC and do that now the other one
is skin they burn so you keep them out
of the noonday
son you cover them up and you put on Sun
protective factor of at least 30 now
let's take a look at the extrapyramidal
tract symptoms it's a trio
they look ghastly they are common but
they're not life-threatening
the first one is Parkinson's and they
don't have Parkinson's but its pseudo
parkinsonism shuffling gait pill rolling
motion fine tremors drooling difficulty
sitting down difficulty getting up and a
blank facial expression pseudo
parkinsonism the other one is dystonia
it's this this painful tonyia muscle
muscle tone so what's happening the
tongue is protruding there's spasm of
the Cline Oh mastoid muscle and the eyes
are going into an ocular Jurek crises it
looks terrible but the treatment for it
or the prevention for it is arcane or
cogent and they counteract the
extrapyramidal tracts side effects
now what's akathisia the patient will
say my body my insides feel like this
jello it's all shaking I feel everything
is loose and radley inside I feel
Restless it's not nervousness
it's akathisia orthostatic hypotension
they stand up and keel over implication
is take their blood pressure if they're
in the ER and they're getting a
phenothiazine medication I am to take
the blood pressure to prevent standing
up and healing over orthostatic
hypotension visual change is blurry
might last might last for a long time
you want to do health teaching and find
out what kind of work they do because if
it involves anything that's an
instrument sharp instrument or machinery
they might sever an artery or a limb due
to blurry
so these are the most common
extrapyramidal orthostatic hypotension
and the visual changes there will be
questions on this in a minute